                                                            Father Christmas's winter wonderland homes are hotting up
                                                                                                                                             From the Guardian of Dec.24, 2018

Many towns claiming to be the birthplace of Santa Claus have seen unseasonal temperatures.

After a year in which the climate has been far more naughty than nice, even Father Christmas - in his various guises - is feeling the heat, according to the towns that claim to be his birthplace.

From Alaska to Finland, half a dozen Arctic towns have staked a claim to be the home of Santa Claus or whatever other name he is locally known as. And almost without exception, these winter wonderlands are hotting up.

In Sweden, festive tourists flock to Mora, which boasts a Santa headquarters known as Tomteland that follows local traditions dating back to the Viking era. But the effects of global warming are becoming harder to ignore.

Reindeers are becoming confused by unseasonal temperatures, according to the indigenous Sami. This spring, there were bad floods, and in summer, nearby woodland was destroyed by wildfires that swept through many areas in Sweden.

"I have consulted Mr Santa ¨C or 'Tomten' which is his real Swedish name - and he is very concerned about climate change," Anders Rosen, Mora's communications manager, told the Guardian. "He has a very strong message to the decision makers of the world:'Please take climate change seriously and make decisions in order to save the planet.'"

A more stable climate would also be better for business. Local ski slopes and cross-country tracks sometimes have to be kept in operation by artificial snow machines. A few years ago, there was no snow on 25 December but the temperature this week is -10C and there have been some falls in recent days so hopes are high that this year will deliver a white Christmas. "Even without snow, we are very good at creating the right Christmas atmosphere," Rosen said. "The tradition of Christmas is very strong in Sweden."

The Finnish city of Rovaniemi receives tens of thousands of letters to Santa from children around the world. Residents of the Lapland capital said the summer was freakishly hot and dry with temperatures above 30C for several weeks in a row. The winter snow arrived so late this year that tourist companies had to improvise with new activities for visitors, including hikes across lakes, where the ice is so crystal clear that fish can be seen near the bottom.
